there are different critics and
questions concerning the role of Germany
in the war in Israel and Gaza today my
guest is Germany's foreign minister
analena Bok and I'm going to ask her a
lot of your
questions Mrs bbok it's a pleasure to
have you here with us today at
DW hello hello good
day we have lost a great many lives
since Hamas terror attack on Israel and
Israel's resulting war on Hamas h on the
Israeli side according to the Israeli
Army 1,200 killed and 240 hostages and
in Gaza according to the health Ministry
which belongs to Hamas 13,000 killed
including some 5,500 children
nevertheless Mrs bbok you do not support
a
ceasefire
why first I don't believe that anyone
sitting here in quiet secure Berlin can
truly imagine the scope of what it all
means there on the ground I spoke with
the father of a hostage family with
German passports who described how his
wife and his two little daughters were
abducted and I have two children myself
it is nearly unbearable to think about
what it would have been like if it had
been one's own children who were
suddenly attacked and brutally
humiliated on October 7th thrown on a
truck and not to have heard a word from
the Children s
and I had the same feeling when I was in
mamala a week ago there too I spoke with
a man whose wife and only son had lost
their lives in Gaza just a couple of
days earlier and the thought of what
that means for someone of having to
imagine one's own kids as we keep seeing
in pictures sitting on the rubble of
their former home their parents buried
beneath it it makes it that much clearer
this awful suffering must have an
end every human life has the same value
no matter what passport what religion
what background parents children all of
us in this world we mourn the
same and why don't you just call for an
immediate ceasefire now if you have seen
all of this suffering
yourself because in order to relieve
that suffering and to attempt to ensure
that right now especially in Gaza people
can be given the most essential
humanitarian assistance water food it
doesn't help to act impulsively and say
the guns Must Fall silent that is not
the responsibility of politicians they
need to work towards really getting that
humanitarian assistance into the
region for a ceasefire Israel and Hamas
would have to agree to stop shooting at
each other that would mean Israel would
no longer be able to defend itself amid
the ongoing barrage of missiles every
day Hamas makes it clear that it wants
to wipe Israel off the map that means
they want to annihilate Israel and in
such a situation Israel has the right to
protect its
population at the same time I am we are
working with our International partners
with the Americans but also with many
Arab countries to do everything possible
to ensure the people in Gaza have safe
places where they won't be killed where
they can access clean drinking water and
medication my objective when I was in
Israel to make clear to the Israeli
government that the people in Gaza must
be protected their fight is with the
terrorist organization Hamas who want to
destroy Israel and not with civilians in
Gaza women and children innocent
Palestinians let's say on the topic of
the humanitarian situation the UN
Secretary General says Gaza is becoming
a graveyard for children the wh speaks
of the catastrophic situation on the
ground and has called for an immediate
ceasefire and not temporary cease fires
in order to save civilians you yourself
have spoken a lot about the suffering
there hospitals 26 have been forced to
discontinue their work in Gaza where
schools are being bombed and the
civilian population is buring the brunt
of the suffering what else has to happen
as I said at the top 13,000 dead what
must happen before you will say stop
stop I believe need to be cautious that
we don't simply demand commitments that
in no way reduce the human suffering in
this awful situation we are in a
terrible situation in which a terror
organization Hamas is abusing children
families hospitals and schools which are
actually protected civilian sites to run
a war a war to wipe out Jews and in this
situation where terrorists and we saw
this in Northern Iraq for instance and
in Syria where Islamic Jihad did exactly
the same abused the civilian population
for their terrorist fight against
humanity and when raqqa and mosul were
liberated we also saw what it meant when
terrorists abuse people as human Shields
and at the same time as stated Israel is
a democratic State that's what
differentiates Democratic states from
Terror organizations to do everything in
the war against Terror to best protect
the civilian population and that is a
dilemma and we have to confront that
dilemma and that's why we can't just say
stop because no one will stop but rather
we must make sure that humanitarian
assistance gets into the region that
Israel can have enough trust that at the
moment the humanitarian Aid arrives
pauses which I have always called for
that many Europeans are calling for that
these pauses in the fighting are not
misused the Hamas does not use those
pauses to carry out new Terror attacks
on Israel or against its own people
against the pales Ians because we have
seen
that at the moment people in the north
of Gaza wanted to flee Hamas started
shooting at Palestinian
civilians you often talk of destroying
Hamas military experts expect that an
ongoing ground offensive will create a
breeding ground for further
radicalization the radical islamist
bosses running Hamas are headquartered
in Qatar and turkey and not in Gaza
experts also say it will be very
difficult to destroy Hamas ideology
militarily some point to the war in
Lebanon and Israel in 2006 when Israel
wanted to destroy the islamist militia
Hezbollah but Hezbollah has been part of
every Lebanese government since then and
expert say it is far from
weakened thus my question to you do you
believe that military operation is the
only way to attain security and peace in
the region right
now one can never just fight terrorism
militarily the US president made that
clear don't repeat the mistakes that we
as Americans made after September 11th
the idea that one can simply fight
terrorism
militarily but rather it's about
security it's about people's freedom and
that's why I and Germany along with
other partners also with Arab countries
are in such intense talks What could a
political solution look like one that
would allow Palestinians in Gaza but
also in the West Bank to live in safety
and freedom in their own Palestinian
State free from
terrorism the solution looks like this
that it can only work for two states at
the same time only when Palestinians can
live in Peace and Freedom and when
Israelis can live in peace and security
free of terrorism can there be a
sustainable solution
there are no easy answers that's why I
want to underscore again with an eye to
terrorism it is not only directed toward
Israel we saw when Hamas came to power
after 2007 how they themselves went
after Palestinians maybe some still
recall the images from back then how
they threw fata critics from rooftops
shot regime critics in the kneecaps the
death penalty was carried out against
Palestinians in Gaza if they were
critical of terrorism
and that makes it so clear that it is
our responsibility as an International
Community there has to be security for
Palestinians to finally have prospects
for the future and development
opportunities they need what every
family seeks security for their own
children you have been traveling in the
region three visits since October 7 what
do you consider to be a concrete
solution what kind of solutions do you
put forth when you speak with Partners
on the ground there
the two State
solution what does that really mean
there has been talk of a two-state
solution for years but what does that
mean today how should it be
implemented it has been talked about for
years but nothing has happened during
that time and I believe we the
International Community are in a
situation in which as I have said the
Palestinians like every people in this
world have the right to live in peace in
Freedom in safety but also to be given a
chance to develop but that can only
happen if they can govern themselves
when they can set their own agendas and
that is why for instance Anthony blinkin
and I made it clear at the G7 Summit in
Tokyo that Palestinians must be able to
manage themselves free from terrorism on
the other hand that means Israel's right
to exist that Israel's security must be
guaranteed that Gaza will not be made
smaller so that over 2 million people in
Gaza can live in Freedom and safety with
no expulsions and to work toward that
end is now the obligation of the
International Community even if the
Horizon seems so far away to contemplate
how a two-state solution in which the
International Community provides
security and protection how can it be
set up but the part that gets us there
is missing of course there is no chance
of that happening right now first of all
the incredible suffering in Gaza must be
ended and the Israelis must be able to
live in security they cannot do that
now and the 240 innocent hostages the
women the children must all be allowed
to return to their Israeli
home you often speak of the hostages
what is the current state of
negotiations who are you negotiating
with to secure their
release there too one can see how
important it is that even if everyone of
course looks differently at this awful
conflict naturally from their own
experience their own suffering from the
outset several Arab countries made clear
not only are we distancing ourselves we
condemn in the strongest possible terms
the brutal way Hamas treats its hostages
Qatar is
negotiating a few minutes ago you said
Hamas political leadership is in Qatar
and other places but we also see that's
been the game terrorists have played in
recent years their structures are
increasingly
decentralized political leadership may
not be giving instructions to military
leadership in
Gaza and that there are individual
Splinter groups among them jihadists who
have the hostages in their hands and
that is why all sides Arabs Israelis the
entire International Community are doing
all we can to see that the hostages are
brought together as one large group that
can be released and to do that there has
to be a pause in the fighting that's why
it's so important to finally be able to
implement these pauses for humanitarian
assistance and at the same time to free
the
hostages media Outlets have repeatedly
reported that there could soon be an
agreement on the fate of the hostages
what is the latest
information as I said these negotiations
are ongoing and here too it is so
important to remember the families when
your own child a 12-year-old is in the
clutches of Hamas in order to protect
your child your relatives you do not
want to discuss everything publicly
because that could also endanger the
host's
release as I said negotiations are going
on around the clock and my Earnest
appeal and that of all people who see
humanity is that these innocent people
finally be set
free you previously mentioned the
two-state solution
Israel's settlement policy is seen as a
major point of contention between Israel
and the Palestinians when it comes to
the chances of a two-state solution
humanitarian law deemed Israeli
settlements in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem illegal decades ago what
concrete steps is the German government
undertaking in order to deal with
illegal settlements and settler violence
in the Israeli occupied
territories I repated and clearly
addressing that as a government and not
just now but rather for the past several
months over the last few years what I'm
trying to do now I would like to
elaborate because it is so complicated
is to put myself in the others place
what would I do if it was my family if
it was my country and that's why in my
view it is not enough to say that one
can only look at this from one
perspective that's why I told the United
Nations General Assembly as well as the
Security Council always be prepared to
put yourself in the other's shoes and
the prerequisite for that is human
rights Universal human rights that's why
for instance from day one in my post as
German foreign minister on my first
visit to Israel on my first visit to the
West Bank I made it clear that this
settlement policy that it was not
supported from our side that it would
not be tolerated but instead that we
condemn
it that is why told the Israeli
governments in the strongest terms to
end
it and I made it clear on my visit last
week in rala and in Tel Aviv in front of
Israeli journalists that the Israeli
Prime Minister must condemn settler
violence it must be criminally
punished that is an Israel security
interest especially with an eye to
Security in the West Bank Israel is
responsible for making sure the
situation does does not escalate
further um there are a lot of
humanitarian demonstrations around the
world calling for a Seas fire there's
also a un Security Council resolution
one that is binding in international
humanitarian law that obliges Israel to
abide by International humanitarian law
by ensuring compliance with longer poses
each lasting for more than a day due to
the humanitarian situation part of the
resolution was the release of hostages
by Hamas which is labeled a terror
organization in Germany and Europe
Israel has rejected the resolution
explaining there would be no pose in
fighting before the hostages are
released is Israel breaking
international
law what you just cited in the security
Council that is exactly what I always
said so to those who would say that
Germany is hypocritical I say no not in
the
least we have fought for those same
pauses in the fighting because we know
they represent the only chance to
incrementally ease the humanitarian
situation it is unbelievably important
that the security Council just agreed to
that and that's why we are working
non-stop to bring it
about Israel is not adhering to it you
speak of how important it is do you
believe Israel is violating
international
law like I said the situation is complex
if only it were so easy to distinguish
black and white in a situation when a
terrorist organization is abusing
International humanitarian law by using
civilians as human Shields this
situation violates international
law that's why Germany and Europe
designate it as a terrorist organization
then there's the UN Security Council and
of course Israel wouldn't that mean it
would have to adhere to international
law
Israel is doing everything to protect
civilians to the best of their abilities
we are working with the Israeli
government around the clock to ease the
humanitarian situation in Gaza as well
as possible G like I said it's an
ultimate dilemma trying to get
humanitarian Aid into a situation in
which a terror organization is misusing
schools and hospitals as military
grounds but I have stated clearly
several times that the German government
that I as the German foreign minister in
the past weeks have done everything
possible to ensure longer humanitarian
pauses pauses lasting several
days they haven't taken place yet have
they and yes that's what's so complex
and difficult about this situation is so
difficult about it if it were easy we
would have already mitigated the fact
that missiles from Gaza are constantly
hitting Israel I've been there several
times now and in Tel Aviv I had to take
shelter in a bunker because the rocket
fire was continuing key actors are
continuing to make clear that they want
to destroy Israel in the very moment
when humanitarian Aid is let in
nevertheless humanitarian ceasefires are
needed that is our urgent appeal also to
Israel's
government um when many of our viewers
listening especially in the Arab world
say that Germany because of its own
guilt and responsibility for the
Holocaust is handing Israel a blank
check with no regard for whether Israel
violates international law or not how do
you as Germany's top Diplomat want to
negotiate when parts of the Arab world
view you as
biased perceptions are also human you
can't say that perceptions are right or
wrong you can only try to
explain I'm very irritated by those
people because to me it sounds like the
complete relativization of genocide the
worst crime this world has ever
seen my country the former Nazi regime
in Germany is responsible for the deaths
of 6 million Jewish men and women the
deaths of hundreds of thousands of
Europeans in
Europe we have committed ourselves as an
International Community and that's what
international law is built on that is
the lesson we have learned from the
horrors of World War II now people are
criticizing the fact that we are talking
about the lessons of World War I
international law was built upon this
foundation so that a genocide never
happens again so I find that extremely
unsettling our position is we are
committed to international law and we
are committed to our German
responsibility and that means giving
Jewish men and women who Germany tried
to annihilate under the Nazi
dictatorship a safe country that is the
state of Israel and that's why Israel's
security is Germany's reason of state to
me that in no way contradicts standing
up for international humanitarian law
and for the universality of human rights
that is why I have been making it so
clear that each life is equally valuable
that the Dreadful images of Palestinian
children keep me up at night just as
much as the thought of Israeli children
having been kidnapped
playing one side suffering against the
others I find that not only malicious
but also painful to watch as a human
being and as a mother what good does it
do a Palestinian mother who doesn't know
what she can give her children to drink
because all she has is brackish water if
Hamas abducts other Israeli children and
the Israeli children will not be
released just because the Palestinian
mother is suffering and that's why it's
so important to me to name the suffering
of both sides and to try to do
everything possible to end the suffering
for Israelis and Palestinians and yes
that is Germany's
responsibility the conflict in the
Middle East U particularly in Gaza and
Israel also has an impact here in
Germany anti-semitic crime has been on
the rise the Federal Criminal police
office reported some 3,300 crimes
related to the conflict in the mid East
since October
7th what must be done to combat
anti-Semitism we were just talking about
how terrorist ideology can't be erased
by military
means instead we need to change people's
minds when it comes to
terrorism the same goes for ideologies
that show no respect for human beings
such as anti-semitism racism
islamophobia or other inhuman
theories this is another one of our
International
lessons when people want to destroy
others based on their Jewish faith or
their Muslim faith or based on their
gender as we've seen the Taliban due to
women in
Afghanistan or when they are excluded
from daily life the way we've seen in
Germany where children aren't safe to go
to Jewish daycare centers then we as a
society have a problem and it's a
political task to fix
it so what do we do criminal law needs
to be applied to its fullest extent this
is why in Germany burning the Israeli
flag is forbidden and is liable to
prosecution that is also why let's say
for example if demonstrators announce in
advance that the burning of the Israeli
flag is intended to symbolically call
into question Israel's right to exist
then these demonstration will be
banned that doesn't mean we are Banning
freedom of
expression but it violates the
Constitution and goes against humanity
when people use symbolic flag burnings
to call for the annihilation of an
entire
country and that is currently the
case let's talk about the impact on our
fellow Jewish and Muslim citizens in
Germany president schin meire and your
party colleague economy Minister habek
have called upon Muslims Palestinians
and Arabs in Germany to distance
themselves from Hamas and not to let
themselves be instrumentalized that's
the gist of what they've said some
people with Arab and Muslim Roots feel
as though they are being unfairly
accused that brings me to my question
many Muslim citizens and people living
here ask how can one find anti-Semitism
without promoting islamophobia and
racism by living according to article
one of our Constitution and expressing
it human dignity shall be inviolable and
that means we do everything to protect
the Dignity of every person living in
our country anybody who denies the right
of human beings of Jewish men and women
to live or who says their country should
be destroyed is attacking human dignity
we need to state that clearly but not
fall into sweeping statements or
thinking just because Mr Meyer or Mr
tubal or Mr odir said that so for
instance if it was a Muslim citizen who
said that that does not mean it comes
from a whole section of the
population but in situations like this
the same thing goes as we see with other
topics not in my name for
example there are so many situations
where people declare ins solidarity with
others we condemn terrorist methods in
the strongest possible terms condemning
for example the actions of Hamas that's
why this bothers
me and I've made this clear to
International Partners but I've been
very clear about it in Germany as well
yes I'm very disturbed by the fact that
Muslim associations did not condemn the
actions of October 7th in the strongest
possible terms for what was namely a
barbaric Terror situation an act of
Terror against Israeli human beings but
not only against them you know that many
Arab people were also killed many
International citizens German citizens
died and there are associations that
clearly condemn that Muslim associations
but others did not and I ask these
associations why
not but what about the people fellow
citizens who currently feel like they
are being unfairly accused they feel
they need to take action and distance
themselves from something that they are
not even affiliated with what would you
tell these people who currently feel
unsettled because they are being asked
to do something that they feel wouldn't
be demanded of other German citizens
they'd say they are German citizens just
like any
other I think any human being who saw
what happened on October 7th
has the urge as a human being at least
this is how I've experienced it with
many Muslim friends Jewish Friends
Christian friends or people like me who
don't believe in any God to make clear
that this was so barbaric and abnormal
that it must be condemned in the
strongest possible terms to distance
oneself as a human being I think that
should be self-evident in a situation
like that the same goes for any human
being who is willing to look at what
happened on October 7th or willing to
look at what is happening in Gaza they
wouldn't see a child sitting on a pile
of rubble and say I don't care I've got
nothing to do with it I think it's a
question of
humanity and that's why again yes I
absolutely don't understand how the
raping of women and some have seen the
awful videos of what happened in a
number of
kbut I watched a very long video of it
in Israel hard to describe a woman being
raped of course it's all
pixelated you can see she's half alive
covered in blood and then a man comes
you only see men in the video he comes
and gouges out her eyes with the
broomstick that happened in this
situation I think it's essential to keep
speaking about these
things question about Gaza I'm sure
you're also speaking with your partners
about what will happen in Gaza after the
war there are several scenarios being
discussed one is that Israel occupies
Gaza another is that Arab units are
stationed in Gaza or the Palestinian
National Authority takes over or Gaza is
placed under International control which
scenario do you
support as a for a start we cannot make
decisions without involving Palestinian
men and women
but while I've been deeply saddened by
accusations from the arabic speaking
World I'll be honest about that that
Germany does not care about the
suffering I have been as clear as I was
at the G7 Summit no not only am I not
indifferent to the suffering I am doing
everything to make clear to everybody
willing to stand up for peace and
Security in the region that this can
only work if Palestinians have their own
State and Israelis have their own State
and that's why I clearly laid out a
five-point plan while I was there along
with Anthony blinken which addressed
some of the things you've just
mentioned for example in order to ensure
security we need International
responsibility we've learned this from
the terrible Wars in Europe's Western
Balkans there too the International
Community assumed a responsibility to
protect it was also a situation where
the worst crimes had been committed and
actors in the
had simply lost all trust I see the same
thing
there what do you mean with
International responsibility do you mean
International troops stationed in Gaza
or what do you mean exactly I mean
taking International responsibility for
security whoever that may be we have un
peacekeepers blue helmet in Gaza I'm not
saying no that's why I said
International responsibility because
there's the question whether
peacekeepers work it requires actors
that the Israelis trust and and actors
at the Palestinians trust that's why it
would need a mix of players to ensure
that terrorism can't rise to power once
again it would also need to see to it
that Israel's security is guaranteed in
addition I've made clear that this means
there can be no expulsions this is why
there can be no occupation of the Gaza
Strip by Israel instead there must be
International responsibility in the
future Palestinians need to be able to
make their own choice administrative
structures must be strengthened so that
hope and an economic perspective can
finally arise we've seen similar
elements in East teamour as well as in
the western
Balkans if I understood you correctly
that means that you are in favor of
international troops in Gaza do you
think Palestinians would go along with
that will the Israelis what is the
information you received after proposing
that like I said that is the perspective
that we must speak about International
Security and a certain presence if I'm
serious about this it can't be without
the people's involvement I can't just
say this is the way it will be part of
negotiations right yes and in order to
even realize that Prospect we need
various countries from the region
International countries close to Israel
thinking about this problem that's what
we're doing right
now and yes whether I am in the
Palestinian territories or in Jordan
where I met Refugee families
or in Israel I can sense that this is
very
urgent all these people ordinary people
living in different countries share the
same desire for peace and
security so yes I also sense a lot of
support for international
responsibility what international
responsibility include the Gulf States
you're in touch with Saudi Arabia and
with the United Arab Emirates are they
prepared to send Saudi troops or emirati
troops to
Gaza like I said right now unfortunately
we're not at that point yet that
political Horizon is still far away at
the moment Hamas Terror against Israel
is continuing
uninterrupted and we're seeing
unbelievable suffering in Gaza that's
why so many actors are currently saying
we can't discuss the political Horizon
just yet but I think if we don't show
now that there can be a solution then
they'll win the upper hand or if the
Playbook of Terror is successful then
people will think there is no
solution that's why those who live in
security and freedom as we do here need
to think about a solution along with
Arab countries that's why yes I also
speak with the Gulf States and it's not
just me speaking with them together we
speak to all of those who feel or bear
responsibility not only for security in
the Middle East but are also committed
as of today and this is the bitter truth
to taking small steps to reduce
humanitarian suffering and to prevent a
further escalation in the region which
would then push this political goal even
further into the
Horizon unfortunately our time is up one
last question about the conflict in the
Middle East president erdogan was in
Germany
then he went back to Turkey and
according to the media called Israel a
terror State again what do you say to
that during the Turkish president's
State visit the federal Chancellor made
it very clear that we not only stand for
Israel's right to exist it is our
responsibility as an International
Community and as
Europeans I believe worldwide we are
currently watching a strong desire to
cater to certain sentiments within
Society the way I see it now is the time
when everybody with political
responsibility must ask themselves
whether they will succumb to sentiment
or take
responsibility in a world that is
already falling
apart or for putting an end to this
horrible war in the best interest of
Israeli and Palestinian
security
we see it as our German responsibility
to do everything we can to strive for
security in the Middle
East even if at times that means that
all we can do in this traumatic
situation is move forward one millimeter
at a
time but every millimeter is worth
it because it's about every single
person in Israel and in
Palestine
thank you very much Mrs barbok for being
with us today of course we have many
questions but our time unfortunately is
up I hope we meet again and that things
on the ground will be different by then
thank you same to
[Music]
you